Abstract The study investigated topic coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic through the social media platform Twitter. Through this study, we conducted an analysis of generated topics over a set period and analyzed how those topics change over time. We also conducted a sentimentality analysis of the corpora, visualized the geography of the tweets, and discovered correlations between these tweets and COVID-19 related metrics by conducting a regression analysis. The study implemented the following approach:

Vocabulary control to the collected Twitter dataset. Using hashtag pooling to create the corpora. Utilizing Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP) modeling to identify the best range of topics. Employing the Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) genism topic modeling technique to get a distribution over all the hashtag corpora. We use the LDA model to find the distribution of topics for each tweet from the data set 6. Per Tweet, finding the topic with the highest density in the topic distribution. Conducting sentiment analysis on the corpus, seeing how each tweet is categorized between “negative,” “neutral,” and “positive.” We are finding the counts of each topic and sentiment category (i.e., neutral, negative, and positive) tweets per state and each month of the study. We identified a regression modeling technique that can best predict a state’s new cases and new deaths per month. Finding the most influential features of the found models to find insight into which topics and types of tweets had the most influence.

The focus of this study was to conduct an analysis specific to the United States. The data was collected using The George Washington University’s Social Feed Manager system, directly accessing the Twitter Streaming Application Protocol Interface. The Social Feed Manager uses the query terms “coronavirus,” “COVID-19,” “epidemiology,” and “pandemic,” which resulted in collecting over 22 million original tweets through the Twitter stream API from March 3rd through November 30th. Generally, the topics posted covered a wide range of relevant topics that the virus has affected in some way or another. Through geolocation analysis, we were able to see the distribution of these topics throughout the United States and which states were discussing varying concepts over that period.
